Between the vast waters of the Atlantic Ocean and the green countryside of central Portugal lies a part of the country that remains relatively unspoiled despite its growing popularity as a holiday destination. The Silver Coast is fortunate in that it has not been overrun by tourism and, thanks to sensitive development, is unlikely to be. Even so it has all the attractions one would expect on a holiday - white sandy beaches that go on for ever, beautiful countryside, historic monuments, a huge range of sporting activities and, of course, breath-taking views of the sparkling silver ocean. The weather is mild most of the time, making it a destination that can be visited and enjoyed all year round.

With a coastline stretching for over 120 miles there is no shortage of beaches - or water sports - on the Silver Coast. Surfing is very popular thanks to the big Atlantic breakers, especially around the Peniche peninsular where it is said you can catch a wave every day of the year thanks to a coastline which twists so much there is always one beach where conditions are perfect. Sailing and a wide range of other water sports are available on the Óbidos lagoon at Foz do Arelho and there is scuba diving and snorkelling on the Berlenga islands, reached by ferry from Peniche in the summer months. The area is an excellent location for walking, cycling and horse riding with numerous accessible trails, both along the coastline and around Montejunto, a brooding mountain in the centre of the region.

People might come for the beaches but the Silver Coast is also known for its rich historical heritage which has left it with stunning examples of architecture, some dating back almost a thousand years. The medieval walled town of Óbidos and the monasteries at Batalha and Alcobaça are just a few unmissable examples and make for a great day out if the weather on the coast is playing up. Also good for a rainy day are the Grutas Mira de Aire near Porto de Mós. These huge caves have spectacular rock formations and an underground stream, all lit up with artfully placed coloured lighting. Add to this other attractions like vineyard tours, a busy cultural programme and the exuberance of the many festivals that take place throughout the Silver Coast and it is not hard to see why many people are now choosing it over the more popular and crowded Algarve for their Portuguese holiday.
