Amsterdam, the capital city of the Netherlands, is rich with history and culture, modern attractions, and memory making moments. Idyllic cobblestone streets, canals crisscrossing the city, and the iconic red brick aesthetic of the buildings are like scenes straight out of a post card. The foundations which make up the city as it is known today stretch back to the 12th century when a dam was built upon the river Amstel.

Centuries of culture wait around every corner, and visitors to Amsterdam will get to enjoy some of Europe's finest art and history museums. Just a short walk south of the Amsterdam Centraal Station, connoisseurs of local histories will delight in the recently renovated Rijksmuseum, which has only just been reopened to the public with its collection of works by the likes of Vermeer and Rembrandt. From here, take a 5 minute walk in any direction and there will be dozens of niche museums and galleries open to the public, whether it be the Van Gogh or Van Loon galleries, Rembrandt's home, or the Amsterdam Museum, which chronicles the history of the city. Well known for being lively and full of character, Amsterdam promises a quirky selection of peculiar attractions to pique all interests. Flavourful spectacles and experiences await throughout the city, such as Poezenboot (Cat Boat) floating cat adoption shelter, the Xtracold Ice Bar, and the eye opening Sex Museum, situated in a centrally located 17th century building. Canal boat rides are the most scenic and relaxing ways to see the city, and are available as either guided tours or even served with an evening meal and drinks.

Of course, there is more to the city than just a proud collection of art and artefacts. The Dutch are a notoriously friendly people and are always eager to flaunt their English speaking skills. A modern and thriving metropolitan destination, Amsterdam is always packed with activity, and visitors are welcome to take part and celebrate in one of their many national holidays. A sea of Orange clad locals take to the streets as the Dutch celebrate King's Day in late April to honour their recently crowned King Willem-Alexander in what promises to be a day of music and laughter. Carnival, or Vastenavond as it is known locally, takes place in February or March, and is a centuries old
