When Nelson Mandela was elected as the first democratic president of South Africa in 1994, he referred to his country as "the rainbow nation". We believe that any trip to this land of contradictions and contrasts at the southern tip of the world's most extraordinary continent, should reflect as many colours of that rainbow as possible. Start the day with breakfast at Camps Bay, a part of the Cape Peninsula that seeks to persuade visitors that they're in St Tropez, rather than a young African democracy. Sip some locally-made sparkling wine with your eggs Benedict, watch the wind through the palms and all will seem well with the world. Meanwhile, outside, a journey to a different reality awaits.

A minibus taxi with a young sharply-dressed driver whisks you beyond Cape Town to a superficially less attractive aspect of the Cape. Just 45 minutes drive from your five-star breakfast lies the life that, more than 20 years after democracy, the majority of South Africans still lead. Your driver will take you on a tour of Langa, one of the apartheid-era townships of Cape Town, where houses are over-crowded and jobs are scarce. You might think it's an unusual way to spend time while on holiday, but we're aiming to offer you a journey that inspires you to think in a new way. There will be a pre-arranged stop at one family's home where tea and a warm African welcome await. As you leave, a typically South African contradiction faces you: how much money do you leave this family? Will they be insulted if you leave any at all?

A two-hour flight to Johannesburg, a city built on its gold mines that boasts that it's the richest in Africa, takes you to a top-class hotel for your first night and a bed and breakfast in Soweto, the sprawling township just outside the city that's home to more than a million people, the next. Visit the Nelson Mandela National Museum in the small house in Vilakazi Street that was Mandela's home before he was sent to jail and where his wife, Winnie, waited for him until he was freed. There's more waiting for you, as another minibus taxi runs you back to O R Tambo Airport, named after the leader of the African National Congress while it was in enforced exile. A short flight and you're at Hluhluwe-iMfolozi Game Park, one of the world's major rhinoceros sanctuaries. Early morning walking tours here, with a personal ranger, bring you to within a few yards of feeding zebra and giraffe. These are experiences that will remain with you for a lifetime. Later, a speedboat races you through Lake St Lucia where flamingos fly on either side of you and hippos poke their snouts above the water. The rainbow contrasts of South Africa are yours to experience, and when you book with us, we'll ensure that you get to experience all of them.
